*Rain* is a statistics-based workload generation toolkit that uses parameterized and empirical distributions to model the different classes of workload variations.

h2. Features

* Highly flexible and customizable workload characterization
** Supports variations in the amount of load, the mix of operations and variations in data popularity (data hotspots)
** Application-specific request Generators can easily use parameterized or empirical probability distributions to characterize different variations in load
** Benchmarks configured by simple JSON configuration files
* Modular design of the harness
** Simple Generator API allowing easy integration of application-specific request Generators that target new systems/applications. Example request generator for the Olio Web 2.0 application used in the Cloudstone Benchmark described and evaluated in our tech report (see Related Documents below for more details)
* Supports closed, open, and partly open loop workload generation
** Use of the Command pattern (GoF) to implement parameterizable Operations. This design choice allows any thread to execute an Operation opening up the possibility of open loop or partly open-loop workload generation
** Two thread pools, one containing dedicated load threads based on the maximum number of clients/users to emulate during an experiment and a (possibly smaller) shared thread pool for simulating asynchronous Operation-execution
* Separation of request generation from request execution 
** This design choice allows Rain to produce traces that can be consumed by a suitable third-party high performance load-delivery client e.g., httperf, if desired or feasible
* Multi-track load generation
** Generate a workload that targets multiple applications/tenants in a shared cluster in a single experiment. This feature is specifically to enable evaluating resource allocation strategies for multi-application/multi-tenant scenarios

h2. Benchmarking with Rain

h3. Requirements

* A "workload server" with "Ant":http://ant.apache.org/.

h3. Instructions

# SSH into the “workload server”.
# Checkout Rain: @git clone git://github.com/yungsters/rain-workload-toolkit.git@
# Change into the Rain directory: @cd rain-workload-toolkit@
# Compile the source code into @rain.jar@: @ant package@
# Bundle the workload you want to use into a JAR.
#* To compile the Olio package, use @ant package-olio@ to create @workloads/olio.jar@.
#* You will have to modify the ant build file for any custom workoads.
# Run the benchmark using: @java -Xmx1g -Xms256m -cp "rain.jar:<path to workload JAR>" radlab.rain.Benchmark <path to Rain JSON configuration file>@
